Okay then. So now we've got Claude code
set up and running inside this project.
I would like to start using it to make
some changes to the code and working on
new components. But before we do that,
it's always a good idea when you're
starting to use the forward/init command
to initialize a claude.md file inside
the project root. And when we do this,
claude scans the entire codebase. It
looks at the folder structure, how we
start the application, any state
management we use, etc. the whole Shazam
so that it gets a good feel for the
project, where everything goes and how
it should code new features in the
future. Then it summarizes all of that
and it dumps the information into a
claude.md file in a structured human
readable format. Then whenever we have
an active session with claude code to
either ask about our project code or to
make changes to the code, it uses that
claude.md file as context and guidance.
It's almost like a mini documentation of
your code for claw to use whenever it's
trying to figure out the best way to
implement something or to give feedback.
So then I'm going to press enter now to
run this command and see what it comes
up with.
And you can see as it's doing this, it's
created a little to-do list for itself.
It's going to explore the repository,
analyze the package.json and the source
code. It's going to check for exe
existing documentation files. And then
finally, it's going to create this
claw.md file at the bottom. And you can
see that it's kind of checking things
off as it does it. So, it's really good
to see the progress of what it's doing
in between all that. It's reading the
files. It's searching for things. So,
yeah, it's doing a real extensive kind
of task.
All right. Then, so now once it's done
all that, you can see it's created this
plan. And if we scroll right to the
bottom, it's asking us, do you want to
create this claw.md file? And I'm going
to select yes. So then it goes ahead to
create that file, which we can see in
the root of the project directory now.
So let's open that up over here and see
what it looks like. So you can see this
file provides guidance to claude code
when working with code in this
repository. So it's got some different
development commands that it's found
from the package.json thing right here.
It's got an architecture overview. So it
says what it is briefly. It's a Nex.js15
blog application. You can see the
different things we're using inside it.
So React 19, Tailwind, V4, uh, Vest,
etc. We've got a project structure,
which is quite nice. So it knows that
when it's creating new files, hopefully
where to put those files. Uh, we've got
some data architecture right here. So it
knows that we're using Higgraph for the
content. And down here we've got
information about the styling. Um, we've
got a testing setup right here and some
additional development notes as well.
So, this is quite comprehensive. It
gives Cloud Code now a good guide as to
what we're doing. And whenever we make
changes, it can use this guide. Now,
since I'd already started this project
before Claude Code got involved, it was
able to scan my existing codebase and
pick up on a lot of things. So, it could
make a detailed Claude file based on the
code I've got. But if you're starting
with a brand new project with virtually
no setup files or code, then it's going
to have much less to work with. And the
claw.md file is probably not going to
have much in it. But in that case, you
can manually go into the file and edit
it yourself to outline any highlevel
project structures you're going to put
in place, any tools, packages, or
frameworks you're going to be using,
your code style preferences, and just
basically an overall summary of the
application. And you can just update it
as you go then. And that last bit is
important whether you're starting with a
new project or an existing one because
you should keep this file updated if you
change your file structure, any packages
you use, or anything else outlined
inside this file. If you don't, then
claude code might not automatically pick
up on those changes, and it could go off
in a completely different direction when
you ask it to do something. Anyway, this
Claude MD file now gets added to the
session context automatically so that
Claude can refer to it when it makes
changes. And you'll find that keeping an
up-to-date Claude file like this leads
to much better code generations. So then
now that we have this file, let's ask
Claude code to do something and see if
it sticks to the guidance. So what I
would like Claude Co to do for us is
make a new hook which is going to store
the user's theme preference based on
whatever theme they have when they
toggle that little icon in the top right
hand corner. Now I noticed that inside
the clawed file over here, we don't
reference a hooks folder. So this would
be a good opportunity to just update
this file so that Claude code knows
where to create hooks. So I'm going to
save this inside the project structure
bit right here where it says all hooks
reusable hooks go inside this hooks
folder. So now if I ask Claude code to
make a hook hopefully it's going to
place inside that folder. All right
then. So you can see we don't actually
have a hooks folder at the moment but
hopefully Claude Code will create that
as well. I'm going to open up the
terminal and then I'm going to ask it to
create this new hook. I will say can you
create a hook to store the users's theme
preference in
when they toggle the theme on the site
and I will say store the value in local
storage for next time and then I'm also
going to say don't use the hook anywhere
yet because claw code has this habit of
if it creates a new feature, hook,
component, whatever it might be, it
wants to use that hook somewhere in your
project. So, a lot of the time I add
this at the end to make sure it doesn't
do that. So, I'm going to press enter.
The only thing I'm really concerned with
at the moment is to test whether claude
code looks at that claw.md file and
creates the hook in the correct folder.
Okay, so it looks like it's come up with
some code. And if we take a look at this
over here, you can see it wants to place
it inside the hooks folder. All right.
So, if we open this up a little bit,
this is the hook it's created right
here. And again, I'm not going to
examine the code too much. I would
normally, if this was something I was
working on, I would definitely examine
the code, but for now, I'm just going to
say yes. I'm going to accept that
change. And you can see it's created the
hooks folder and it's created the use
theme file within the folder. Awesome.
You can also add a memory to the claw.
MD file directly from the chat session
by using a hash symbol. For example, I
could add a hash then say something like
when making new page components, always
add a link to that page in the header.
And you can see down here as I type that
it's telling us it's going to memorize
what we're telling it because we added
that hash. And the long and short of
that is that it's going to place this
instruction inside the claw.md file for
future reference. So that now whenever
it creates a page component, it should
hopefully create a header link for it
too. Now when we hit enter, we're going
to see a few options. We can save it to
project memory which is into the
claude.md file we just created for this
project. You could save it to local
project memory in the same root folder
but with the local part added to the
file name. And you can also save it to
global memory which is to a global
claude file stored in the root claude
folder on your computer which the
installation added for us. So project
memory is what gets set up when we run
the forward/init command to create this
claw.nd file in the root of the project.
And this file is meant to be tracked by
version control and pushed to your
remote repository so that any other
developers working on the project have
the same clawed file with the same
guidance for clawed code for this
project. And that means any memories or
information in this file should be
specific to the project. For example,
folder structure, naming conventions,
tests, frameworks, etc. The local
project memory is a file meant for your
own personal guidance and preferences
when it comes to working with claude
code. So, for example, outlining any
kind of personal tooling you might use
that isn't necessarily something other
developers working on the same project
would use. And this file wouldn't be
pushed to the remote repository and it
would just be local to you inside this
project. And finally, user memory is
your personal guidance to Claude when it
comes to all projects you work on. So
any tools you use globally across many
projects or any personal code style
preferences that you have would go in
that file. And again, this would just be
for you on your computer, but it would
be for every project that Claude Code
runs in. For now, we're just going to
add this to the project memory, meaning
it should get added to the claude.md
file that we already have. So, if I
close this off and open this file up, we
should be able to see at the bottom that
new memory has been added. And you can
see right here, when making new page
components, always add a link to that
page in the header. Awesome. All right.
So, now we're going to test this out.
So, I'm going to open code backup, and
I'm going to paste in a prompt, which
says, can you add a new about page with
only an H2 title and a single line of
Lauram as contact uh content rather? So,
press enter. Hopefully, it's going to
read that instruction in the claw. MD
file as well and create a link for us.
And you can see in its to-dos, it says
right here, add about page link to the
header navigation. So, it knows about
that. All right. So, I'm just going to
accept these changes. Again, normally
you should check this, but for the sake
of this tutorial, I'm just going to
accept this. And again, it's asking for
permission to edit the file, the layout
file this time to add a new link. Again,
I'm going to press yes. You can do this.
And then another change to the layout
file, which I'm going to accept as well.
Okay. And now it's done. So if I close
this off, open up app and then we can
see this about page and inside there we
have an H2 title and just a single line
of Lauram Ipsum. Awesome. And then if we
go to the layout page which it's edited.
Hopefully it's added a link right here.
So it's added it to this nav. So it says
about right here. Now let's try this out
in a browser. Okay. So yes, it has done
that. You can see the about link here.
And if we click on that, we go to the
about page. Now you can see also
retrospectively it's added these other
two links which I didn't ask it to do.
And this is one of the things I've
noticed about clawed code. Sometimes
like I mentioned before it sometimes
likes to do things beyond the scope of
what you've asked it to do. So it is
important to maybe tell claw code look
don't do this just do this. And that
could be something you add to your
claude.md file. Now just really quickly
I do want to mention that on the Claude
code docs they say that the local memory
is being deprecated in favor of
importing unttracked files within the
project level memory to provide that
personal context to Claude. And I'll
show you how to import and reference
files later in the course. But at the
time of recording this video the local
option still shows in the terminal when
you use the memory hashtag shortcut to
add new memories. Another way you can
access your memory files is by using the
memory command which is just forward
slashmemory. And by the way, if it isn't
already obvious, when I say memory
files, I'm just talking about the
claw.md files, whether they're project
local or global. But anyway, when you
use this memory command, claude code's
going to ask you which memory file you
want to open and edit. So you can select
any of these and press enter to open
that file up. For example, if I select
the project memory, it's going to open
up the claw.md file right here in VS
Code so that I can edit it directly
myself. So then just to summarize, it's
always good practice to use the
forward/init command when you bring
claud code into a project because it
gives Claude the chance to learn about
the codebase and outline any structural
patterns, frameworks, libraries, naming
conventions, etc. in a claude file. That
file is then used by Claude as context
automatically when it makes decisions
about your project in the future and it
can be added to your remote repository
so that other developers working on the
project have access to it as well for
their own workflow using clawed code.
Finally, it's not something you should
just create and then forget about, but
rather keep on top of edit and update
when things change within your project.
That way, you're always keeping Claude
in the loop, and you'll find its work to
be much more in line with your project's
existing current code and structure.